---
title: UX Research
cta_text: ???
title_image: ???.jpg
date: 2018-03-14
tags: ???
published: false

---

???

READMORE

LEAN UX
-------

### Hypotheses

With our assumptions in hand, we're ready to move to the next step:
writing hypotheses. To do that, we transform our assumptions into a
format that is easier to test: the hypothesis statement.

Generally, hypothesis statements use this format:

- We believe **[this statement is true]**.
- We will know we're **[right/wrong]** when we see the following
  feedback from the market:

    **[qualitative feedback]** and/or **[quantitative feedback]**
    and/or **[key performance indicator change]**.

You can see that this format has two parts. A statement of what you
believe to be true, and statement of the market feedback you're
looking for to confirm that you're right.

Expressing your assumptions this way turns out to be a powerful
technique. It takes much of the subjective and political conversation
out of the decision-making process and instead orients the team
toward evidence collected from the market. In other words, it orients
the team toward their users and customers.

#### Hypotheses: Tactical and Testable

At their highest levels, hypotheses can seem daunting. Where do you
begin? What do you test first? In these situations, we've found it
helpful to focus our hypothesis writing on features. FigureÂ 3-4
presents the format we recommend for articulating tactical, testable
hypothesis statements.

> # Feature Hypothesis Statement Template
>
> We believe this **[business outcome]** will be achieved if **[these
> users]** successfully achieve **[this user outcome]** with **[this
> feature]**.

The first field is completed with the outcome you've determined is
your measure of success. This is the business outcome you'd like to
achieve. The second field describes exactly which of your target
users you believe you should focus on first. The third field speaks
to the end goal, benefit, or the emotional state those customers will
get if we design and implement our feature well. The final field
speaks to the way we believe we should improve our product or the new
features we'd like to build.

It's easy to jump to features first. Most teams do this. By
structuring your conversations with hypotheses you force the team to
think through the context first, and especially, the problem you're
trying to solve. This constrains the space for determining which
features to work on. Each assumption you put in place increasingly
confines the team's thinking to a more accurate set of potential
features. This focus makes any feature discussion more productive,
more targeted, and ultimately more relevant to your customers.

[...]

#### Completing Your Hypothesis Statements

To create your hypothesis statements, you will need to begin
assembling the building blocks. Here is what you are going to want to
put together:

- The _business outcomes_ you are tryig to achieve
- The _users_ you are trying to service
- The _user outcomes_ that motivate them
- The _features_ you believe might work in this situation

After you have all of this raw material, you can put them all
together into a set of statements. Let's take a closer look at each
of these elements.

##### Running the exercise: business outcomes

Business outcomes are your definition of done. They are the result
your buisness seeks, and the measuring stick for success. When you
manage with outcomes, the question isn't, "Did you ship it?" Instead,
the question is, "How did this create a good result for us, for the
customer, or for us both?" When you're creating hypotheses to test,
you want to try to be very specific regarding the outcomes you are
trying to create. We discussed earlier how Lean UX teams focus less
on output (the documents, sketches, products, and features that we
create) and more on the outcomes that these outputs create. _Can we
make it easier for people to log in to our site? Can we encourage
more peole to sign up? Can we encourage greater collaboration among
system users?_

Together with your team, look at the probelm you are trying to solve.
You probably have a few high-level outcomes that you are trying to
create (increasing sign-ups, increasing usage, etc.). Consider how
you can break down these high-level outcomes into smaller parts. What
behaviors will predict greater usage? More visitors to the site? More
downloads of your app? Increasing number of items in the shopping
cart? Sometimes, it's helpful to run a team brainstorm to create a
list of possible outcomes that you believe will predict the larger
outcome you seek.

[...]

##### Running the exercise: user outcomes

Despite the proliferation of Agile techniques like user stories, the
user and their goals often become lost in the lengthy debates over
features, designs, and implementations. Empathy is at the heart of
great products and servies. Designers often have been responsible for
advocating for the user from an empathetic point of view. As we now
know, this is not uniquely a designer's responsibility. To achieve
broader shared understanding of users and a deeper sense of empathy
for what they are trying to achieve, we ask our teams to declare
their assumptions about what users are trying to do, in the form of
_user outcomes_.

To do that, ask your teams the following:

- What is the user trying to accomplish? _Example: I want to buy a
  new phone._
- How does the user want to feel during and after this process?
  _Example: I want to feel like I got the phone I need at a good
  price and that I'm keeping up technologically with my peers (i.e.,
  I want to feel cool_
- How does our product or service get the user closer to a life goal
  or dream? _Example: I want to feel tech-savvy and respected for
  it._

Note that not every user outcome exists at all three levels. But
thinking about outcomes in these terms can help you to find important
dimensions of your solution to work on, from the functional,
task-oriented outcomes to the more emotional experience-oriented
outcomes.

[...]

##### Running the exercise: features

After you have a list of business outcomes in mind and have set your
focust on a group of users and their needs, it's time to begin
thinking about what tactics, features, products, and services you can
put in place to achieve them. This is typically the part where
everyone on the team has a strong opinion--after all, features are
the most concrete things we work with, so it's often easiest for us
to express our ideas in terms of features. Too often, though, our
design process begins when someone has a feature idea, and we forget
to investigate whether the feature will create meaningful results for
the business, or for its customers and users. In Lean UX, features
exist to serve the needs of the customer and the business.
