---

title: Jeff Jacobson-Swartfager
alias: about.html

---

A designer of both physical and digital media and a front end web developer, 
my work focuses on a positive user experience through storytelling, delight, 
contextual responsiveness, and progressive enhancement.

## Experience

### Technical Communications Advisor: Advisicon 

As the head of the Press department, I managed the authoring, design, and
production of our library of instructional books and materials in both print
and ebook formats. 

I also led the development and maintenance of the Advisicon family of websites:
[advisicon.com](http://advisicon.com) (a static site built off of Sinatra in
HAML, LESS, and jQuery), [the Advisicon blog] (http://blog.advisicon.com) (a
Wordpress site), and [the Advisicon store] (http://store.advisicon.com) (a
Shopify site). I led and performed the user experience design, testing, and
user research of the soon to be released redesigned Advisicon website. This
website has been prototyped in Middleman and makes use of SCSS, jQuery, and
D3.js. The backend is being developed in Ruby on Rails.

I worked closely with the marketing department in establishing branding
guidelines and in developing the brand itself. We've built SharePoint enabled
Word templates in order to facilitate event flyer generation by non-technical
users, custom email design for marketing campaigns, print and web
advertisements, coupons, and event booth collateral.

I've worked with our developers to build custom business intelligence
dashboards in SharePoint 2013 using custom XSLT and CSS and I've advised them
in UX decisions in a variety of user interactions with SharePoint.

### Desktop Publisher: Lingo Systems 

At Lingo Systems, I was responsible for layout in translated manuals,
schematics, presentations, and information packages to mirror the documents
created in the source language. Day to day, this meant making a range of
typographic adjustments to control page flow, destination textual legibility
and color, and figure context matching.

I used a variety of programs to do this work (the destination format matched
the source format), among them: Illustrator, InDesign, CorelDRAW, QuarkXPress,
Word, PowerPoint, Excel, and FrameMaker.
